README.md, before:

PostSRSd
========

About
-----

PostSRSd provides the Sender Rewriting Scheme (SRS) via TCP-based
lookup tables for Postfix. SRS is needed if your mail server acts
as forwarder.


Sender Rewriting Scheme Crash Course
------------------------------------
Imagine your server receives a mail from `alice@example.com`
that is to be forwarded. If example.com uses the Sender Policy Framework
to indicate that all legit mails originate from their server, your
forwarded mail might be bounced, because you have no permission to send
on behalf of example.com. The solution is that you map the address to
your own domain, e.g.
`SRS0+xxxx=yy=example.com=alice@yourdomain.org` (forward SRS). If the
mail is bounced later and a notification arrives, you can extract the
original address from the rewritten one (reverse SRS) and return the
notification to the sender. You might notice that the reverse SRS can
be abused to turn your server into an open relay. For this reason, `xxxx`
and `yy` are a cryptographic signature and a time stamp. If the signature
does not match, the address is forged and the mail can be discarded.

Building
--------

PostSRSd requires a POSIX compatible system and CMake to build.
Optionally, help2man is used to create a manual page.

For convenience, a Makefile fragment is provided which calls CMake with
the recommended command line options. Just run `make`.

Alternatively, you can control many aspects of the build manually:

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake .. <options>
    make
    make install

The CMake script defines a number of options in addition to the
standard CMake flags. Use `-D<option>=<value>` to override the defaults.

*   `GENERATE_SRS_SECRET` (default: `ON`). Generate a random secret on install.
*   `USE_APPARMOR` (default: `OFF`): Install an AppArmor profile for the daemon.
*   `USE_SELINUX` (default: `OFF`): Install an SELinux policy module for
    the daemon.
*   `INIT_FLAVOR` (default: auto-detect). Select the appriopriate startup
    script type. Must be one of (`systemd`, `upstart`,`sysv-lsb`,`sysv-redhat`)
    or `none`.
*   `CHROOT_DIR` (default: `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/lib/postsrsd`). Chroot jail
    for the daemon.
*   `SYSCONF_DIR` (default: `/etc`). Location of system configuration files.
*   `CONFIG_DIR` (default: `${SYSCONF_DIR}/default`). Install destination for
    the postsrsd settings.
*   `DOC_DIR` (default: `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/share/doc/postsrsd`). Install
    destination for documentation files.
*   `SYSD_UNIT_DIR` (default: `${SYSCONF_DIR}/systemd/system`). Install
    destination for systemd startup files.

Installing
----------

Run `make install` as root to install the daemon and the configuration
files.

Configuration
-------------

The configuration is located in `/etc/default/postsrsd` by default. On many
systems, the default configuration will work out-of-the-box, but please take
the two minutes to check the settings for yourself. Also, please make sure
that Postfix has the correct domain name configured, i.e.
`postconf -h mydomain` returns the correct value.

You must store at least one secret key in `/etc/postsrsd.secret`. The installer
tries to generate one from `/dev/urandom`. Be careful that no one can guess
your secret, because anyone who knows it can use your mail server as open
relay!  Each line of `/etc/postsrsd.secret` is used as secret. The first secret
is used for signing and verification, the others for verification only.

PostSRSd exposes its functionality via two TCP lookup tables. The
recommended Postfix configuration is to add the following fragment to
your main.cf:

    sender_canonical_maps = tcp:localhost:10001
    sender_canonical_classes = envelope_sender
    recipient_canonical_maps = tcp:localhost:10002
    recipient_canonical_classes= envelope_recipient,header_recipient

This will transparently rewrite incoming and outgoing envelope addresses,
and additionally undo SRS rewrites in the To: header of bounce notifications
and vacation autoreplies.

Run `service postsrsd start` and `postfix reload` as root, or reboot.

Known Issues
------------

- Due to the way PostSRSd is integrated with Postfix, sender addresses
  will always be rewritten even if the mail is not forwarded at all. This
  is because the canonical maps are read by the cleanup daemon, which
  processes mails at the very beginning before any routing decision is made.
  
  Where piping into an external command is not a problem,
  [Postforward](https://github.com/zoni/postforward) offers an alternative
  way to integrate PostSRSd with Postfix which avoids this problem.

- The Postfix package in CentOS 6 lacks the required support for TCP
  dictionaries. Please upgrade your distribution or build Postfix yourself.

Use with Exim
-------------

Exim configuration examples can be found in [README.exim.md](README.exim.md)

Commit message:

Add to README about
Latest Debian and Ubuntu versions require to run `systemctl enable postsrsd` before starting a service.

README.md, after:

PostSRSd
========

About
-----

PostSRSd provides the Sender Rewriting Scheme (SRS) via TCP-based
lookup tables for Postfix. SRS is needed if your mail server acts
as forwarder.


Sender Rewriting Scheme Crash Course
------------------------------------
Imagine your server receives a mail from `alice@example.com`
that is to be forwarded. If example.com uses the Sender Policy Framework
to indicate that all legit mails originate from their server, your
forwarded mail might be bounced, because you have no permission to send
on behalf of example.com. The solution is that you map the address to
your own domain, e.g.
`SRS0+xxxx=yy=example.com=alice@yourdomain.org` (forward SRS). If the
mail is bounced later and a notification arrives, you can extract the
original address from the rewritten one (reverse SRS) and return the
notification to the sender. You might notice that the reverse SRS can
be abused to turn your server into an open relay. For this reason, `xxxx`
and `yy` are a cryptographic signature and a time stamp. If the signature
does not match, the address is forged and the mail can be discarded.

Building
--------

PostSRSd requires a POSIX compatible system and CMake to build.
Optionally, help2man is used to create a manual page.

For convenience, a Makefile fragment is provided which calls CMake with
the recommended command line options. Just run `make`.

Alternatively, you can control many aspects of the build manually:

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake .. <options>
    make
    make install

The CMake script defines a number of options in addition to the
standard CMake flags. Use `-D<option>=<value>` to override the defaults.

*   `GENERATE_SRS_SECRET` (default: `ON`). Generate a random secret on install.
*   `USE_APPARMOR` (default: `OFF`): Install an AppArmor profile for the daemon.
*   `USE_SELINUX` (default: `OFF`): Install an SELinux policy module for
    the daemon.
*   `INIT_FLAVOR` (default: auto-detect). Select the appriopriate startup
    script type. Must be one of (`systemd`, `upstart`,`sysv-lsb`,`sysv-redhat`)
    or `none`.
*   `CHROOT_DIR` (default: `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/lib/postsrsd`). Chroot jail
    for the daemon.
*   `SYSCONF_DIR` (default: `/etc`). Location of system configuration files.
*   `CONFIG_DIR` (default: `${SYSCONF_DIR}/default`). Install destination for
    the postsrsd settings.
*   `DOC_DIR` (default: `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/share/doc/postsrsd`). Install
    destination for documentation files.
*   `SYSD_UNIT_DIR` (default: `${SYSCONF_DIR}/systemd/system`). Install
    destination for systemd startup files.

Installing
----------

Run `make install` as root to install the daemon and the configuration
files.

Configuration
-------------

The configuration is located in `/etc/default/postsrsd` by default. On many
systems, the default configuration will work out-of-the-box, but please take
the two minutes to check the settings for yourself. Also, please make sure
that Postfix has the correct domain name configured, i.e.
`postconf -h mydomain` returns the correct value.

You must store at least one secret key in `/etc/postsrsd.secret`. The installer
tries to generate one from `/dev/urandom`. Be careful that no one can guess
your secret, because anyone who knows it can use your mail server as open
relay!  Each line of `/etc/postsrsd.secret` is used as secret. The first secret
is used for signing and verification, the others for verification only.

PostSRSd exposes its functionality via two TCP lookup tables. The
recommended Postfix configuration is to add the following fragment to
your main.cf:

    sender_canonical_maps = tcp:localhost:10001
    sender_canonical_classes = envelope_sender
    recipient_canonical_maps = tcp:localhost:10002
    recipient_canonical_classes= envelope_recipient,header_recipient

This will transparently rewrite incoming and outgoing envelope addresses,
and additionally undo SRS rewrites in the To: header of bounce notifications
and vacation autoreplies.

Run `service postsrsd start` and `postfix reload` as root, or reboot. For Debian and Ubuntu you need to run `systemctl enable postsrsd` first.

Known Issues
------------

- Due to the way PostSRSd is integrated with Postfix, sender addresses
  will always be rewritten even if the mail is not forwarded at all. This
  is because the canonical maps are read by the cleanup daemon, which
  processes mails at the very beginning before any routing decision is made.
  
  Where piping into an external command is not a problem,
  [Postforward](https://github.com/zoni/postforward) offers an alternative
  way to integrate PostSRSd with Postfix which avoids this problem.

- The Postfix package in CentOS 6 lacks the required support for TCP
  dictionaries. Please upgrade your distribution or build Postfix yourself.

Use with Exim
-------------

Exim configuration examples can be found in [README.exim.md](README.exim.md)
